[Docs] Add Document: Implementing Product Information Management (#10209)
pimcore/pimcore: doc/Development_Documentation/26_Best_Practice/02_Implementing_ Product_ Information_ Management.md

All these aspects regarding the concept of PIM and its usages are summarized in the following diagram:

![PIM Architecture](./img/pim_management/Picture1.png)

As you can see in the previous diagram, products can be imported into a PIM system by uploading files or implementing specific flows to establish an integration with other software or databases. Products can be also created and enriched directly in the PIM environment, through the graphical user interface (GUI).
Product data can then be exported to e-commerce or other software, or properly exported to files.
To summarize, in this section, you learned about the concept of PIM and the benefits that a PIM system brings as regards product data management and distribution. In the following section, we will build a Product entity step by step, defining a Pimcore class that will represent the product concept.

## Defining the Product Entity

In the previous section, you learned about the concept of Product Information Management. As the name suggests, in a PIM system, it’s mandatory to create a class that represents the products, and this is what we are going to do in this section.

> Pimcore does not set any constraints as far as the concept of products is concerned, so we can simply create a class named Product and define all the attributes that reflect our needs. So, as you learned in Chapter 5, Exploring Objects and Classes, just go through **Settings | Data Objects | Classes, and create a new class named Product**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pimcore does not set any constraints as far as the concept of products is concerned, so we can simply create a class named Product and define all the attributes that reflect our needs. Just go through **Settings | Data Objects | Classes**, and create a new class named Product.
```

> If you followed the instructions provided in the Technical requirements section, you should find an already defined Product class. Please note that this is just a plausible definition of the concept of a product and that you can add or remove class attributes according to your needs. You can see what this class looks like in the following screenshot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you installed the Pimcore Demo Package, you will find an already defined Product class. Please note that this is just a plausible definition of the concept of a product and that you can add or remove class attributes according to your needs. You can see how a class can look like in the following screenshot:
```

- **Categorization**: In this panel, you can see some attributes defined to categorize the product. The brand attribute is a custom-defined single select field with common brands as options; there’s also a predefined options list to choose the country where the product was made. The last attribute is a many-to-one relation with another class realized to describe categories.
- **Composition**: In this panel, you can find an advanced many-to-many relation component to relate the product to the materials that compose the product. In this relation, you can set the percentage of the various materials to define the composition.
- **Attributes**: In this panel, we have defined attributes that can be used to represent the product variants, such as color and size. For the color attribute, we have defined a relationship with a dedicated class.
- **Images**: As the name suggests, this panel is designed to contain the product images. In particular, we used a **Fieldcollection** to administer an undefined number of images.

>   For the sake of completeness, in the following screenshot, you will see the other class definitions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the sake of completeness, in the following screenshot, you will see the other class definitions:
```

In the following screenshot, you can see an example of a created product:

![Product entity](./img/pim_management/Picture4.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, the structure of the created product reflects the class definition. To better organize the contents, objects of the various classes are divided into the corresponding subfolders.
To summarize, in this section, we have seen how to define a Product entity. We have presented a possible implementation of the product concept, but this concept has no fixed definition in terms of attributes, so you can choose to create attributes that better reflect your needs. Besides, we have defined other secondary classes to relate the products to other concepts such as categories, materials, and colors. This is useful for keeping this information linked to a product without the need to replicate them in all products.
In the following section, you will learn how to create product variants in order to create configurable products.

> ### Creating Product Variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating Product Variants
```

#### Object Listing

In the previous example, we have seen how to retrieve the variants of a specific product, using the methods that retrieve the product children. In this example, we will see how to retrieve variants in generic listing methods.
In the following code snippet, you can see how product variants can be retrieved on listing queries:

```php
<?php

use Pimcore\Model\DataObject\Product;
use Pimcore\Model\DataObject\AbstractObject;

    $list = new Product\Listing();
    $list->setObjectTypes([AbstractObject::OBJECT_TYPE_VARIANT]);
    $variants = $list->load();
```

In the previous code snippet, you can see how to initialize a product listing. For listing objects, there is a specific method to set the object types that you want to retrieve. This method is the one that is used internally by the `getChildren()` method you have seen in the previous example. The load method returns an array of objects that respect the listing conditions.

In these first two examples, you have learned how to retrieve existing variants. In the following example, you will see how to create a new variant instead.

> ##### Creating a new Variant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Creating a new Variant
```

In the example, you will note the use of the *getByName* method. This kind of method is automatically generated for each class attribute at class-definition save. The first argument is the value to search for, the second one is for localized fields (the language for which the value must be searched), and the third one is the limit parameter. If the limit is 1, a single object is returned; otherwise, the return type is an instance of the class listing.

To summarize, in this section, you learned how to enable variants for the Product class and how to create product variants. Then, through some code examples, you learned how to retrieve existing variants and how to create new ones.

In the following section, you will learn how to create bundled products and how to create a service that listens to events fired after certain operations are made—for example, to automatically calculate one or more product field values when a product is saved.

> ###### Creating a Bundle Product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a Bundle Product
```

In the previous section, you learned how to enable and create product variants and how to practically use them in code examples. In this section, you will learn how to define bundle products.

In marketing, the concept of Product Bundling is a practice of offering a set of individual products or services together as one combined product or service package. Typically, bundle products are intended to be kits or, more generically, a group of coherent products, with the advantage of a discounted price if bought together instead of buying them separately.

Through this chapter, we will first see how to modify our previously created Product class to define bundle products. Then, we will discover how to automatically perform operations on product save to calculate the bundle price.

> ###### Defining bundle products

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Defining bundle products
```

![Bundle Products Relation](./img/pim_management/Picture9.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, only the previously selected product fields are visible in the relation attribute.
Now that we have defined which are the products that compose our bundle, we may want to automatically calculate the bundle price based on the price of the selected products, so we need to open the class definition and add a new numeric attribute to store the bundle price, as you can see in the following screenshot:

![Bundle price attribute](./img/pim_management/Picture10.png)

In the previous screenshot, you can see that this attribute is marked as Not editable, and this means that we need a method to calculate the bundle price.

To summarize, in this section, you learned how to alter the Product class to define bundle products. In the following section, you will learn how to create a listener class that listens for an event fired by the product save operation, which will allow you to automatically calculate the bundle price.

> ###### Creating an Event Listener

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating an Event Listener
```

For each product that composes the bundle, we sum the product price, and in the end, we decrease this sum by 20%. Please note that this is just an example and that you can define your own rule.

To avoid a circular loop on product saves, we save the product only in cases where the new calculated price is different from the previous one. If we omit this check, the save operation made on this service will fire the event again.

To summarize, in this section, you learned the concept of product bundling and how to change the Product class by adding attributes that allow you to define bundle products. Later, you learned how to create an event listener service to capture events fired by operations on objects, such as the saving of a product. In the provided example, you have seen how to automatically calculate the price of a bundle product.

In the following section, you will learn how to extend the Product class to manage different types of products without the need to create a specific class for each product.

> ###### Managing different Product Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Managing different Product Types
```

In the previous section, you learned how to define bundle products. In this section, you will learn how to manage different types of products without creating a different class for each product type. If you need to manage a heterogeneous set of products, such as shirts and shoes, you will probably need specific attributes to better represent these concepts.
Surely, we could create two different classes for shirts and shoes, but we will need to define redundant fields for both classes to describe properties that are shared between them—for example, the title, price, description, and so on.

With *Objectbricks*, we just need to create little sets of attributes to describe specific fields and allow our class to dynamically add these bricks. As the name suggests, class objects can be composed of one or more bricks added to the common attributes.

> Before creating *Objectbrick* definitions, we need to create an attribute in the Product class to accommodate the various bricks. To create this attribute, just right-click on a panel component inside the class definition and select Add Data Component | Structured | Objectbricks, fill in the attribute name, and click on the Save button to apply the changes. In the following screenshot, you can see an example of this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating *Objectbrick* definitions, we need to create an attribute in the Product class to accommodate the various bricks. To create this attribute, just right-click on a panel component inside the class definition and select **Add Data Component | Structured | Objectbricks**, fill in the attribute name, and click on the Save button to apply the changes. In the following screenshot, you can see an example of this:
```

Once the Objectbricks are defined, we can attach them to the product objects. In the following screenshot, you can see what the Objectbrick looks like in the product object:

![Objectbrick instance](./img/pim_management/Picture13.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, in the product objects, the *Objectbricks* appear as a specific section. You can attach one or more *Objectbricks* to every object since the defined limit is reached, and every kind of *Objectbrick* can be attached once within the same objects.
To summarize, in this section, you learned how to manage different types of products using *Objectbricks*. *Objectbricks* can be considered as subsets of attributes that can be attached to classes to extend the class concept with extra attributes. For the Product class, for example, we can think about creating specific attributes for shirts, shoes, and so on.

In the next section, you will learn how to configure a workflow that will let you control the product information completeness step by step.

> ###### Working with workflows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Working with workflows
```

3. **Place**: A place is a step in a workflow and describes a characteristic or status of an element. Depending on the place, an element may appear in a specific view—for example, to have a focus on translations only. We will have a look at how to create a custom layout for a Pimcore class in the following section.
4. **Marking Store**: The marking store stores the current place(s) for each element.
5. **Transition**: A transition describes the action that is performed to move from one place to another. Transitions may be allowed or not, depending on additional criteria, and may require additional notes and information entered by the user.
6. **Transition Guard**: Defines a criterion that defines if a transition is currently allowed or not.
   By reading the following sections, you will learn how to properly configure a Pimcore workflow. We will start by defining a custom layout for the Product class and will then see how to set up a workflow that will guide the completion of product information.

> ###### Configuring a Custom Layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring a Custom Layout
```

![Creating a Custom Layout](./img/pim_management/Picture14.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, to add a new custom layout you just need to fill in the Name and Unique identifier fields and click on the OK button to confirm.

Once you have initialized the custom layout, you can specify which attributes you want to show in the layout itself. In the following screenshot, you can see how this configuration can be done:

![Custom Layout Configuration](./img/pim_management/Picture15.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, the configuration modal is composed of two main panels. In the left panel, you will find the previously defined class structure, while in the right panel you can drag and drop the attributes you want to show in the custom layout from the left panel.
For each attribute, you can decide to change some properties, such as the possibility to edit the attribute itself. Once you have configured the custom layout, you can click on the Save button to apply the changes.
Now that you have seen how to configure custom layouts, let’s see how to use them in a workflow configuration.

> Configuring a Pimcore Workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring a Pimcore Workflow
```

Optionally, you can also specify some extra options on a transition to set up a custom icon for the transition and to let the user write a note when the transition is invoked, as you can see in the following screenshot:

![Notes on transition](./img/pim_management/Picture18.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, when the user clicks on the transition action, a modal will open and the user can write a comment that will be stored in the Notes & Events section inside the object, and then click on the Perform Action button to complete the transition.

To summarize, in this section, you learned how to configure a Pimcore workflow. By defining custom layouts, you can force users to fill in product information step by step, to ensure data completion. In particular, you learned how to define places for the workflow and how to configure workflow transitions.

> ###### Summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary
```

Later in this tutorial, you learned about the concept of product bundling and how to add new fields to the Product class to let you define bundle products. Then, you learned how to create an event listener service to listen to events fired by the objects—for example, to catch the product saving. 

In particular, you have seen a code example showing how to calculate the price of a bundle product.
After that, you learned how to use Objectbricks to extend the Product class, attaching groups of attributes useful to define specific concepts. This is useful if you want to represent different kinds of products without creating a class for each kind, to avoid the redundancy of common attributes.

In the last section, you learned how to configure custom layouts for Pimcore classes and how to use them in Pimcore workflow configurations. Through a concrete example, you learned how to configure a workflow to fill in product information step by step.

> In the next chapter, you will learn how to expose products and other entities to the outside through the Pimcore DataHub bundle and how to turn Pimcore into a Master Data Management (MDM) platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more
This was a sample chapter from the book _Modernizing Enterprise CMS Using Pimcore by Daniele Fontani, Marco Guiducci, Francesa Minà available at Packt Publishing (2021)_. You can purchase the full book at [https://www.packtpub.com/product/modernizing-enterprise-cms-using-pimcore/9781801075404](url)
```.
